#summary Help - How to configure dojango.

=Configuration of dojango=

*Note: This page refers to the latest version from SVN trunk*, to see this page [http://code.google.com/p/dojango/source/browse/wiki/Configuration.wiki?r=36 for the downloadable dojango-0.3 version please go here]!

Dojango was designed to get started very fast, but you also have the power to configure
everything on your own (just if you really want to :-)). All the definitions below
can be set in your project's *settings.py* file:

==DOJANGO_DOJO_PROFILE (default "aol")==

Sets the dojango profile, that should be used within the dojango context. Possible values:

  * "aol" (default)
  * "aol_uncompressed"
  * "aol_gfx"
  * "aol_gfx_uncompressed"
  * "google"
  * "google_uncompressed"
  * "local"
  * "local_release"
  * "local_release_uncompressed"

==DOJANGO_DOJO_VERSION (default "1.2.0")==

This setting defines the dojo version that should be used within dojango. For the local
version you can pass in any value, because dojango tries to get a local version from
the following directory:

  _*django project directory*_/dojango/media/dojo/_*DOJANGO_DOJO_VERSION*_

If you want to use a version of the profiles local or local_release you first have to download a dojo version and place it in the above mentioned directory. For details how to do this see DojoBuild.

All other external (crossdomain) builds provide the following versions:

  * "1.1.1" - available in profile: all aol and google profiles
  * "1.1.0" - available in profile: all aol profiles
  * "1.0.2" - available in profile: all aol profiles
  * "1.0.0" - available in profile: all aol profiles
  * "0.9.0" - available in profile: all aol profiles

==DOJANGO_DOJO_PROFILES==

With this setting you can extend the default list of profiles delivered with
dojango (see above). Loot at *conf/settings.py* on how to define your own
profile.

==DOJANGO_DOJO_THEME (default: "tundra")==

Here you can define the dojo theme, that should be used. Possible values:

  * "tundra"
  * "soria"
  * "nihilo"

==DOJANGO_DOJO_THEME_URL (defaults to the dijit theme URL)==

You can set your own theme base URL. It defaults to *dojo base url/dijit/themes*
and there you can look at the dojo theme structure, e.g.:

  _dojo base url_/dijit/themes/tundra

  _dojo base url_/dijit/themes/tundra/tundra.css

==DOJANGO_DOJO_DEBUG (default: settings.DEBUG)==

Turning dojo into debug mode. The standard is using the DEBUG setting of your
django project. Possible values:

  * True
  * False

==DOJANGO_DOJO_SECURE_JSON (default: True)==

Defines if the json response (used in dojango decorators / utility functions) should
be prepended with:

  {}&&\n

This is the recommendation of Dojo in version 1.2.0. Possible values:

  * True
  * False

==Several advanced settings for some URLs and paths==

Be careful if you modify the following settings. You really should know what you
are doing, if you are changing these.

===DOJANGO_BASE_MEDIA_URL (default: /dojango/media)===

This sets the absolute URL to the media files of dojango. All dojo files
reside below that.

===DOJANGO_BUILD_MEDIA_URL (default: DOJANGO_BASE_MEDIA_URL + "/release")===

What is the base url when the dojango profile "local_release" is used? A builded
release will be available there in a directory with the name of the builded version.
See ''Settings for building your own dojo profile'' for details about building
dojo releases.

===DOJANGO_BASE_MEDIA_ROOT (default: _*django project directory*_/dojango/media)===

With this setting you can define the absolute path to the media files of dojango.
You have to change that, if you want to modify the dojo build system.

===DOJANGO_BASE_DOJO_ROOT (default: DOJANGO_BASE_MEDIA_ROOT + "/dojo")===

Like DOJANGO_BASE_MEDIA_ROOT, but defining the absolute base path to the media
files of dojo.